From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes. Our weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists, Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 95. Recorded
live Thursday, January 14th, 2010. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik RD controls the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks about the Wix
project with project lead. Rob
mentioned. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
I'm chatting today with Rob
mentioned, who is the project
lead for the Wix project?
The waste project is an
installer application that is open
source and it has had
a public within the longest
open source projects that I've
seen running around Microsoft. How
are you Rob doing well
doing well. So this has
been going on for a
long time. Well, let's just
start at the beginning and
w what is Wix and
when did it start? So
the Wix tool set is
a set of tools that
build windows, installation packages. So
MSI files. We, the idea
is that you take source
code, which happens to be
XML. You feed it into
a compiler and a linker
much the same way as
you feed, you know, C
plus plus code into a
C you know, the component
linker and out the other
end pops on MSI that
has all of your files
cabbed up. If you want
that, all the stuff laid
out such that you can
take that, put it on
a CD and ship with
your customers, tape that put
on the internet, flow to
your customers and things like
that. And the idea originally
came from the fact that
we had all these tools
that were very focused on
gooey, and you had to
go in and point and
click on things, but they
didn't necessarily fit real well
into the development process. That
was typical inside Microsoft at
that time. And by the
way, we're talking 1999 when
I started this 99. Yeah.
That's when I, I graduated
university and joined Microsoft in
99. So the Wix tool
set was different because it
was check these command line
tools into your build system,
have a make file. They
make file. Cause that's what
we're using back then, and
then have them driven in
the same way with source
control and all that kinds
of good stuff. A little
bit later, I think it
was about 2003. We had
a guy joined us and
said, how about I get
visual studio integration? So he
started the work to create
what we call votive, which
is the visual studio integration
package that gives us all
the build goodness and stuff
like that. And over time,
we've kept up with the
source control text files that
are built by these command
line tools. Then we added
Emma's build tasks and more
visual studio integration and so
on and so forth. So
that's where we've come from.
Our next thing is keeping
up with the state of
art of installation is people
are not shipping one in
Messiah anymore. They're shipping by
their MSI and they need
a.net framework, or they need
msi.net for American SQL express
or MSX ML. And all
these different packages can no
longer be put into a
single thing. So the big
thing that we're releasing in
the next version of the
Wix tool set is not
just visual studio, 2010 support
when that ships, but also
this thing that we call
a chain or a bootstrapper
that will hook all those
packages together. Again, in a
you'll define a textile sale,
the things you want, the
build process, I'll put all
these MSIs and then finally
an executable that allows you
to chain all those MSIs
together. So that's what we
are about. Okay. Wow. That
was a 10 year experience
there. And a minute. So
this is, so this is
a DSL, it's a domain
specific language for installers. The,
the XML grammar is, is
your own right? Yes. Yep.
Okay. So it's completely made
up and is it a,
it's a full fledged language
in the sense that it
has probably a schema associated
with it and does it,
and it allows you, it
sounds like more granularity really
over your, your emphasize. Dan
was actually present given the
gooey that was going on,
the gooeys that were available
at the time. It depends
on the gooeys. Some buoys,
you know, allows you to
get down to the actual
table row concepts that are
inside the windows installer, which
it's the windows installer files.
The MSI files themselves are
a little databases. So you
can actually see them as
tables and rows. The goal
of the Wix tool set
was to abstract away. A
lot of the weirdnesses that
were in those tables and
rows, and the fact that
their tables arose because installation
is very hierarchical, which will
map really nicely and XML,
you can imagine. So it
has all these concerts to
hide away these, some of
the nastier details, but also
give you full control over
the windows installer, which was
one of the big key
things at the time I
was a developer in window
or in office. And so
I was looking at, Hey,
this is this gigantic huge
project. How do we do
things to enable this fitting
the build process a bit.
We have some other features
that allow you to do
distributed development really well, so
that you can take what
would be say the office
installation and break it up
into many small parts where
one, guy's worried about Windward
dot ECC and other guys
worried about like MSO DLL,
and there's all this calm
registration and things that hook
together. Each individual developer can
be responsible for their individual
parts and the Wix tool
set through the compiling and
linking we'll bring it all
back together into one MSI
or however you want to
organize it. So I'll, it
is designed to go to
huge scale and, and provide
everything that you can do
in the windows installer. We
support that in the store.
Wow. Okay. So, so your,
so 10 years ago you
were just out of school
and you've just, and Microsoft
is your first and only
job is that right? Besides,
you know, I had an
internship at an engineering firm
when I was in college
and then I had an
internship at Microsoft in 98
as well. And then I
came back in 99 And
then you had this idea
and how did you have
this idea? Like, was this
part of your job where
you needed to make installers
as part of your job?
And you said, wow, existing
tool set is unacceptable. So
when I was an intern
on an office where the
wind installer was actually created,
so I was an intern
on the window installer 98.
So I had a little
bit of background of what
this thing was when I
started in 99. And I
had created mostly tools around
the, when installed for my
course. You don't take an
intern and say, here, let's
put you in the middle
of the engine, near the
end of our ship cycle.
And have you just kind
of write code in there.
They don't do that interns.
So instead I got tools.
How can you make it
easier things to know about
when, as installers and stuff
like that? So at the
time I created things like
ices, which are the internal
consist evaluators. You can think
of it kind of like
ethics cop for C-sharp. We
have an X, a static
analysis for MSI files. I
also created Orca and which
is probably one of the
things I'm more famous for,
which is the assembly level
debugger kind of thing that
you can get into and
see every little piece of
a windows installer file in
that row table format. So
Database editor, it's the Microsoft
access of, of, of installers.
Yes. Of MSI files. Yeah.
And yeah, hardly anybody uses
it today because I saw
people trying to do this
and, you know, it's like,
Oh, he's got the foreign
key relationships. Right. And you
have to type all this.
Right. I was like, this
is crazy. So that's when
I started getting into, well,
you know, there should be
a high level concept. And
I knew textiles were, you
know, the build process source
control, that kind of stuff
was important thing. And I,
at the time, you know,
we're talking 1999 XDR was
coming out, you know, XML
with an XDR types things
and DPDs are going away,
but Microsoft is doing STR
this was before XSD anyway.
So I was like, Oh,
this XML thing, like going,
gonna be good. It's gonna
be a big thing. And
I didn't want to write
a whole parser for my
language. I was like, I'll
just put it next to
the mail. This section will
be a big thing. So
in fact, if you come
to my office, you'll see
a, my door tag I've
been carrying around since office.
Cause the guys got tired
of hearing me say, I
think XML is going to
be, this thing will be
really cool. They gave me
a door tag that says,
has mentioned as elements had
Rob as the text of
the element. And that's my
door tag, which of course
is point people like, yeah,
okay. Whatever. But back in
then XML was a big,
you know, new and exciting
kind of thing. So I
took the one installer, took
XML, put them together into
this project so that I
can learn a lot from
this. And then it turns
into what we have is
the Wix tool set. When
you started this, did you
ask a boss ahead of
time? And again, like not
only was XML in the
kind of the beginning stages,
but I think it would
be fair to say that
that open source, as far
as Microsoft was concerned was
certainly not on their radar.
Were you doing this as
part of your job or
did we do this on
the side? This is a,
so the Wix tool set
has been a side job
for, you know, these 10
years I started because one,
I thought it would be
a good thing for us
to have, I was going
to learn a lot from
it, but I believed in
this text file build system
for billing solution packages and
that set up could be
developed, distributed across main developers.
I just, I believe in
those things. So this project
was kind of a way
of, you know, taking that
philosophy and saying, look, here's
something you can do. Here's
the goodness you get out
of it. And so I
was running, I mean the
first version was all written
in VB script. So I
mean like Wix V one,
it was all VB script
accrued to like 10,000 lines
of VB script code with,
you know, all the WSF
files and stuff like that.
The VB script team loved
me at that time. Cause
I would stress their engine
I'd file bugs around. So
I'm going, yeah, it doesn't
work when you do this.
And I'm like, Oh, Hey,
it turns out my roommate
later would be one of
the guys that worked on
this scripting. And so anyway,
so it was just an
idea that I had that
we should do this now.
It was a side project
and I had been exposed
very little to open source
just a little bit towards
the end or one of
my friends in college and
could be getting the WN
and stuff like that. And
I kind of like going,
you know, what is this
about why you got the
source code for free? That's
kind of unique, you know,
this is junior year, whatever.
So it was an interesting
idea. So when I was
at Microsoft, I was like,
well, come inside. It only
makes sense that I'm gonna
work in a society. You're
going to get the source
code. It's VB script. So
what if I can get
people involved in this project?
And I knew it was
open source, but I called
it community source for a
long time. Look, let's build
a community around this thing.
Let's get people talking about
it. Cause I mean, and
we're talking about set up
geeks here, right? So we're
talking about guys that build
winterization packages and stuff like
that. Yeah. I mean, it's,
especially, it's funny that you
point that out though. Let's
let's, let's back up for
a second. Cause we are
talking about set up set
of geeks. As you'd like
to say these are, there's
a special kind of engineer
that really, really enjoys writing
a great setup application. That's
true. I have, I have
a great amount of respect
for those folks, but to
see, to see a good
setup application is, you know,
is a work of art.
And I think it would
be wonderful that to imagine
a world one day when
there is no setup and
then we're just dragging everything
in an applications folder. But
until then a good looking
setup, like a paint.net level
setup is a, is a
really beautiful thing. And so
I totally agree with you
about that. And so the
big thing at that time
was set up. Guys also
don't tend to get much
respect in general, this just
kind of like, yeah, just
go make it happen. Why
isn't this X copy? I'm
like, it's not as copied
because the systems have been
made harder. The applications made
difficult, not because we like
to make our lives difficult.
And so it was a
nice way to kind of
bring this community together and
go, Hey, there are other
people out here that are
doing the setup stuff. Maybe
we can all make our
lives better by building tools
that help us. And that's
what the waste tool set
has been for these years
and the open source. So
it wasn't open source insight.
I mean it followed all
of the typical things you
get from open source. There's,
you know, there's a code,
you could get it, you'd
send in, you we'd have
a mailing list. People would
talk about it. And it
was all inside the company
until the end of 2003.
When I finally got to
a point where I'm like,
okay, I think it's time
for me to go and
see if I can take
this project. The set of
tools that I think would
be useful for developers outside
the company. And Oh, by
the way, in that time
I'd rewritten the VB script
into C sharp as a
way of learning C sharp.
I had switched teams to
where we need to use
C sharp and I didn't
know it well. So I
took my VB script and
you know, rewrote this gigantic
thing and C sharp in
a couple of weeks. Cause
that's how long they gave
me a ramp up on
language. So I rewrote it
like, okay, that's great. And
I was like, with this
C sharp language, I can
take this outside the company
and people could use it.
How do I go about
doing that? And so I
started going through, you know,
every group has a LCR
rep. So I went to
LSA rep and I sat
down and I said Slow
down because people on the
phone won't people on the
phone rather. It's not. Cause
I'm talking to you on
the phone. People who are
listening to the show, won't
know what LCA is. So
legal and corporate affairs LCA
is what we call the,
the, the, the suits, the
lawyers here at Microsoft. Yeah.
So you actually called you
called the suits. Sure. I
call them because people always
make fun of lawyers and
stuff like that. I love
those guys because once I
figured out what they're doing
is trying to apply what
we do in logic and
coding rules and all that
kind of stuff. They're trying
to apply it to the
English language. It makes it
infinitely harder. But once I
figured that about lawyers, I
was like, okay, I get
you guys. Hey everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
No doubt. You probably bumped
into testing tasks now, and
then, and your work and,
you know, writing functional tests
is probably not your favorite
thing. It's kind of difficult.
It takes time and the
results can be dubious. Well,
I'll get ready to start
liking tests. Thanks to Tellerik
with the, the new whereby
testing framework. Building web automation
test is a breeze. You've
got code automation with advanced
asp.net, Ajax and certified applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio, unit testing, also
end unit X unit and
NBA unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax and several lines, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test is it's absolutely
free Friday got hooked on
web testing framework, start using
it right away, go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. Did you just
say that the lawyers are
trying to code with English?
Yes, absolutely. When you get
into, when you get into
the interpretations of what open
source licenses are, you're going
to see all of the
baits are about, about the
placement of punctuation and what
words are used and things
like that. If we have
time, I can tell I'll
tell you something that the
CPL was just kind of
fun. So, anyway, so I
went to the LCA, our
legal rep and said, Hey,
what I'd like to do
is release this code. I
know Microsoft has kind of
been a little bit more
open about releasing code to
the externals. We, some of
the policies in 19 nine
were a lot more, do
not touch open source at
all by 2003, we're starting
to be a little bit
more well, you know, let's
kind of, you know, let's,
let's do some things in
this space. I went to
look, the guy said, okay,
this is kind of the
ULA we put on the
licenses that we put on
it that says, Hey, you
can use this, but Microsoft
doesn't make any guarantees on
it. Stuff like that. I'm
like, okay. Yeah. That's kinda
what I'm looking for. I'd
also like to be able
to like have contributions come
back and the lawyer just
kind of stops and looks
at me and he's like,
you mean like opensource? And
I'm like, yeah, like a
community where we can hang
out and, you know, talk
about and stuff. And he's
like, that's different. I know
a guy that happens to
be working on that kind
of project. So I got
looped to this lawyer. Another
lawyer, I never say his
last name was like Steve
McCalsky or something like that.
He doesn't work on that
space anymore. But at the
time he was like, alright,
I know who you need
to talk to. And they
hook me in with this
business guy that was in
the windows business guy. And
his name was Steven Wally.
And Steven Wallace says, Hey, this
is great. Let's have coffee.
I'm like, okay, we're gonna
have coffee. So I sit
down and I look at
him and he looks at
me and he goes, so
what are you doing? I
tell them the story. I
was like, okay, that's good.
That's good. I was like,
alright, so what do you
wanna do? I'm like, I
want to release this. I
want you to be able
to have countries. I'm gonna
have community outside. It's like,
okay. Okay. That's good. How
much headcount do you want?
And I was like, Hey
cat, you mean like people
to work on this project?
He's like, yeah. And I'm
like, none me and like
four guys are working on
it right now. And you
know, we get together at
my house on Thursday nights
and order pizza and hack
on the code and have
a good time and laugh.
And then, you know, we
do our job during the
day and he's like, perfect.
And so what ends up
happening is I ended up
rolled in. He goes to
my management. We go to
the guys, the management that
has the one installer team.
They all talk about, Hey,
is this okay? Are you
guys okay if we release
this project, it ends up
going to on Jim Elgin.
And I have this meeting
with Jamal just hour and
a half meeting. They'd been
looking for an open source
project to release from Microsoft.
And just to be clear
to the folks that are
listening, Jim, all chin is
important. Jim Olson is the,
at this point in time,
the head of the windows
organization, all of it. And
so he was a very,
you know, important dude. And
we had this meeting and
I'm like sitting here going,
this is crazy. Like, I'm
just a dev, right. I'm
just the guy that writes
code sitting here and Jim
mulches office. And, you know,
they'll look at it. And
like, and there had been
pre-meetings before it was talking
about what they've been looking
for. So Steven Wally talks
about the project a little
bit, what it is, Jim,
she looks at me and
I don't remember all the
questions he asked. And he's
like, you do this on
your free time. I'm like,
yeah, this is important. He's
like, okay. And he looks
everybody and goes, is this
are, you know, this is
a good project. And he
has this lunch there. Cause
we had this lunch meeting
and everyone goes, yeah, he's
like, it looks at Steve.
And he goes, you found
your project and walks out.
And so I'm like, cool,
is that like we're signed
off. And so we walk
out the door and the
admin, I remember that she
looks and she goes, that
is the fastest meeting we've
ever had. She goes and
she points at me. She
goes, I like you. So
I'm at that point, we
had approval. The things we
did after that was where
do we put the project?
What license do we use?
Jason Madison, who was a
big force in the open
source and Microsoft agreements. I
guy was great too. We
sat down with a number
of legal people and said,
what license screen you use?
And remember, this is before
any of the Microsoft open
source licenses exist or anything
like that. And he said,
Actually, if there's any licensed
before this, like what was,
was this the first thing
that we really pushed out
with any kind of open
source license? Yes. This is
the first thing that came
from Microsoft that, you know,
it was a Microsoft project
that came out under an
official OSI license. So we
talked about licenses. We ended
up settling on the CPL.
The, the legal guys could
explain to you why the
CPL was this, the common
public, the common public license
is the third version. I've
kind of heard of it
as the IBM had the
IPL, which was the IBM
public license that they based
on, some of the stuff
that they had read and
like the differences between the
Apache and the GPL. And
then the IBM came out
with the common public license.
And later on, they went
on to the EPL, which
is the eclipse is like
branches of this, you know,
how languages program. And they
just all come back from
some language in the beginning.
I don't know if it's
fourth or whatever it is.
You can see the same
thing in open source license.
This one B gets this
one and this one, we
got this one and so
on and so forth. So
to use the CPL, because
we want to use somebody
else's license that was already
approved, just get this project
out there. And then it
was, well, where do you
put this? And the answer
was, well, you know, in
2000, we're going through 2004
towards the end 2004, or,
you know, beginning 2004. And
they're like, well, you know,
the big place people are
on is so we're like,
cool, we're going to SourceForge.
So April 5th, 2004, we released the
Wix tool set under the
CPL on source four. And
this is Wix V too.
Cause we could be one
was all VB script, never
saw the light of day
outside of Microsoft. So it's
all the C sharp stuff.
And poof, there you go.
Open source from Microsoft on
April 5th, 2004. Huh? Was it too
much fanfare or was it
too kind of a silent
nothing. No, it was so
there was a set of
interviews set up. Jason Marisol
had people he's meeting with
the news was first released
to Mary Jo Foley. And
so she wrote a thing
and then, and I had
a blog by that point.
And so I wrote the
blog post that says, this
is what it is, why
it exists and yay. And
then that blog post just
got flooded with comments and
all kinds of different things.
People were riding around the
world. I remember there were
two running themes. The first
theme is, Oh, Hey, you
know what? Mr. Barry cold and
hell now, which was one
of the things Oh, flying
pigs is another one. But
the one that I thought
was most funny, he's like,
you know, this is like
four days after April fool's
day. We're running. If Microsoft
is just playing a joke
on us a little late.
Well they people did, but
they're like, is this for
real? Like, there's Microsoft really
just do open source. And
the answer was yes. Yeah,
we did right there that
day released it. And now
we had a whole lot
of, you know, critics and
people saying that it wasn't
real, that what we were
doing really, for example, one
of the mistakes I made
that I didn't even know
was a mistake was the
initial build was released when
I released the code. You
needed like visual studio to
build it. And people were
like immediately complaining, Oh, this
is just a ploy that
they're going to be self
source. That's going to force
you to buy copies of
official studio. And I was
like, wow, people are going
to use the Wix tool
set because it's going to,
you know, it's so popular
among developers. Like they're trying
to set up geeks that
they're going to buy a
copy of. I was like,
well, that, wasn't what my
intention was. All right. So
then I rewrote the build
system and make literally, and
may, can all tools that
were freely available from Microsoft
example to quiet all of
these different concerns. And finally,
I got to the point,
I'm like, you know what,
the way that we're going
to be accepted by the
open source community is by
being around for a long
time. So I was like,
we're going to be, I'll
be here. People can be
critical that, you know, Microsoft
is going to do this
and they're gonna dump it
or whatever. I'm like, no,
I'm, this is the project
I've been doing this up
to this point up for
five years. This is not,
this is not the end
at a certain level. This
is like the end of
the beginning. And we're getting
into the good stuff now.
And so we've been around
for five years and all
those things are gone now.
Now we're just, yeah. This
open source project for Microsoft,
there's a whole bunch of
them who cares. So at
this point, you're, you're, you've
been out 10 years now.
Well, this project has been
around for 10 years. So
for me, the way stool
toolsets existed in 1999 at
the end of 1999. So
I pass the 10 year
Mark, you know, end of
last year and it's been
public for over five years.
Wow. And does this actually
ship in visual studio? Like,
can I get this in
visual studio 2008 or 2010?
Or do I still have
to download it separately? You
still download it separately. There
was a deal we cooked
up for a little while
to have the Wix tool
set ship as part of
the visual studio, 2010 and
the business guys got into
it. They're like, yeah. You
know, we're not sure why
don't you guys just keep
doing this? So the decision
was then to go, you
know, we're not sure we
want to do all the
work to bring it into
the visual studio box with
all of that means. So
why don't you guys stay
down low? So we're on
S gallery now. So, you
know, you can get to
it through the visual studio
gallery download and you can
pull it from SourceForge. You
can pick a weekly build,
but we are not in
the visual studio. Do you
think that that gives you
less legitimacy? I mean, in
the sense that, I mean,
it's still awesome and the
accomplishment is great, but did
they not put it into
the product just out of
laziness or did they think
that by putting it in
the product, it might change
the way people felt about
it? For me, I had,
I think I had it
in my mind, how I
could explain the differences between
what the community version would
have been. And the visual
studio version would have been,
cause they would have been
different versions slightly, right? Cause
the community one would have
continued and the visual studio
one would have stopped, stabilized,
shipping the product and then
stayed there for a long
time. And we had, we
were working on things to
try to get it so
you could pull the community
version out and swap the
fitness studio one out if
you wanted to move forward
with the community thing. So
we're getting all of this
and it was just kinda
like, you know where we're
at, this isn't exactly the
experience we want to have
the visuals that you guys
decide. This is exactly the
experience we wanted to have.
So did it affect our
legitimacy? The, the problem with
open source projects that are
run like by the set
of volunteers, like they are
in the way that we
run the Wix tool set
is that there isn't a
company entity behind it that
says, if you want to
pay me money, I will
support you for, you know,
using this product. So that
is one of the things
that I know affects the
legitimacy of the Wix tool
set. Like it affects the
legitimacy of any open source
project, which is the, you
know, if a company, big
companies typically want to call
somebody up and say, I
need you to fix this.
I want you to fix
this now. Cause I am
paying you this much money.
We don't have anybody that
does that for the waste
tool set today. That's the
only legitimacy. After that five
years in the community we've
released, we released the Wix
two version. We've released the
Wix three version that released
last summer. And we're working
on with three, five to
bring in this chain or
bootstrapper, we're alive, we're kicking,
we're growing. We get more
people all the time. We
have people saying both good
and bad things about us.
You know, about our language,
about the way the tool
works. It's a good stuff.
I appreciate the bad stuff.
I take it as, Oh,
that's what we need to
fix. Got it. Thank you
for the feedback. And we
have nothing, but I don't
know, another 10 years ahead
of us, of things to
improve. So we're a legitimate
opensource project with the way
all those things work. We
are legit. I mean, we
have some really big customers,
you know, office, visual studio,
almost all Microsoft uses which
tool set at that point.
That helps a lot with
people going, does this thing
really work, But that was
the Wix tool set. Now
that this isn't, this isn't
your job though, right? I
mean, has this, how does
this affect your job at
Microsoft? Are you still doing
this on Thursday nights with
your friends at the house?
Or do you have time
at work on working like
nine to five that you
can actually work on this?
So no, the way I
still run it, as you
know, it's the thing I
do on Saturdays or Thursday
nights or I interleave questions
in the middle of the
day. Quite often when people
ask questions, sometimes I'll answer
them and things like that
when they're sent to me.
And then I just kind
of mentally know that, Hey,
I have to work harder
in the evening or something
to catch up any time
that I might spend on
this. So it's still the
side thing for me. And
that's starting to shift around
a little bit, but that
to me, it's, it's still
a side project has been.
And I just, I don't
know, work harder at my
day job, I guess, Nippy
better if Microsoft or your
bosses, I gave you like
Fridays or Thursdays and Fridays
to work on this. I
mean, at some point you'll
get married and have kids
or get bored or I
don't know, get an Xbox
and suddenly your weekend time
will dry up. So the,
the that's true. And I
have, I did get married
through this process and no,
I did get married throughout
all of this process. I
did get married. I started
dating when we started going
open source. I got married
sometime after it was released
as open source. So she
kind of came into it,
knowing that this is a
thing that I do, which
probably helps, but it's not
just me. You know, people
talk a lot about the
way they'll say, Oh, that's
Rob mentioned, rule is code.
I'm like, that's not even
close to fair. I'm actually
on my, I think fourth
generation of set of people
that were coming toolset. I've
been consistent through it. But
you know, we've had names
like, you know, Derek Cicerone
who now works for a
company in the Valley, Scott
Kurtzberg, who still works in
office Reed, Gustin. He now
works at Google, but I
mean, those guys all were
like the first unit, the
second unit had, you know,
people like Justin Rockwood and
Bob Aaronson, Justin still works
in office. Bob works. Now
I am not alone. Like,
I mean, we're talking this
project has, I haven't counted
in a while, but there
are at least, you know,
I think 50,000 lines of
code in the and linker.
Wow. So it's non trivially,
large. And certainly not something
one person can do in
their spare time. No, not,
I mean it could someone
write that many lines of
code in 10 years? Yes.
I'm in the free time.
That's that's trickier. So the
fact that I'm not alone,
you know, it's like, no,
it's this and the people
are probably still set really
like it. Like we like
the communities we like working
together. We keep moving it
forward and we get a
lot of nice feedback. Regular
feedback is hugely popular. So
all of this together is
makes the project role really?
I don't know. We've been
running really well. It hasn't
been a problem. The other
thing is that I tend
to work in deployment related
stuff in all of the
jobs that I've had at
Microsoft. So I'm applying that
knowledge to the waste tool
set. So it's not like
I'm out of the domain,
not thinking about deployment. I'm
not just working on the
core tool set day in
and day out. And, and,
and the bosses are supportive.
They're not, I mean like
when you have your reviews
are like, yeah, good job
on the Wix thing, keep
it up. So let me
give you a real good
example of what ends up
happening. So this is one
of the things, one of
the things we grow, people's
like, you know, and which
tool set. I spent a
lot of time growing. The
people work on it probably
recently like coming around. And
one of the things you
do is you want to
kind of, we call it
increasing your sphere of influence
people. You know, things that
you can do so that
you can do a better
job at your job by
knowing and being connected and
just, Hey, Oh, Hey, I
know this other guy. He
told me to stay in.
That's going to make my
day job better because I
know that that's the kind
of thing customers will want
in. I previously worked at
windows marketplace, which was selling
software online. And at the
time we were starting to
bring on Microsoft products into
that thing. They've been kind
of there, but we're trying
to get them into better.
And I was like, you
know, I happen to know
pretty much all the teams
at Microsoft. So which team,
you know, I could go
to our program managers say,
which team would you like
to go talk to inside
Microsoft about delivering their stuff
into windows marketplace and the
program managers look at me
and go, you can get
me any team. I'm like,
well, yeah, I'll just call
it a setup guy. Who's
going to be right next
to the release and the
release manager for that product.
And they'll be able to
tell you everything you want
to know about that. And
the program managers like that's
awesome. So that kind of
stuff ends up helping me
do my day job better.
Even though I spend my
free time doing these other
things. Does that of make
sense? Yeah. I just want
to, I want to understand
whether someone is, whether people
at Microsoft are expected to
do like a bunch of
opensource work on the side
and the regular job and
be awesome at everything. And
if bosses say things like
really, you ought to be
working on your open source
thing less, you know, if
they, if they realize that
there's not only just life
out of work in a
personal sense, but also in
a work sense. Well, you
know, if, if I was,
you know, if I was
sucking at my job, I'm
sure they'd say, dude, you
know, you probably need to
work a little bit harder
at your job. So I
guess I've always known that
I have to do good
work no matter what. Well,
this is really interesting. I
think It's great that this
has lasted this long, that
the product is, is 10
years old. And I get
to give you big credit
for sticking with it this
long. Yeah. And so, and
I have a surprise coming
out in another month that
I'm going to talk about
around my birthday time when
I, that I'm not quite
ready to tell you, you're
about a month early. So
you're going to tell me
that you have a surprise,
but you're not going to
use the show here as,
as your, as your, your
voice box to spread the
word. You can't give us
a hint. Can you give
us something we can guess
about A little bit of
a guess, a little bit
of a hint it's it's,
it's all related to the
Wix tool set and Well,
gosh, I wonder how I
could have guessed that It'll
be good. So give it
and, and give another month.
And I will, I'll have
I'm I've been formulating this
blog post in my head.
It's kind of been this
thing. That's been long coming
for me a long time
to make the, the set
of changes that have all
come together. So, and another
month you'll see it. Okay.
So we should check that
out at  dot com
slash blog. Yep. Alright. I'll
have links on the show
site so everyone can get
to the Wix tool set
and a couple of other
blog posts and interesting things
about Wix. Thanks a lot,
Rob, for taking the time
to chat with me today.
Yeah, no problem. It's been
fun. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.